.\" Manpage for jool's userspace app.
.\" Report bugs to jool@nic.mx.

.TH jool 8 2014-01-29 v3.1.0 "Jool's Userspace Application"

.SH NAME
jool - Interact with Jool (the kernel module).

.SH DESCRIPTION
Sends commands and requests to Jool.
.br
Jool is a kernel module you load into a Linux kernel. It implements stateful NAT64 (RFC 6146).

.SH AVAILABILITY
Linux is the only OS in which this program makes sense.
.br
Kernels 2.6.38 and up.

.SH SYNTAX
.RI "jool --pool6 [" OPERATION "] [--prefix " PREFIX ]
.br
.RI "jool --pool4 [" OPERATION "] [--address " ADDRESS ]
.br
.RI "jool --bib [--numeric] [" OPERATION "] [" PROTOCOLS "] [--bib4 " BIB4 "] [--bib6 " BIB6 ]
.br
.RI "jool --session [--numeric] [" OPERATION "] [" PROTOCOLS ]
.br
.RI "jool [--filtering] " "FLAG_KEY FLAG_VALUE"
.br
.RI "jool [--translate] " "FLAG_KEY FLAG_VALUE"
.br
.RI "jool [--fragmentation] " "FLAG_KEY FLAG_VALUE"

.SH OPTIONS

.SS OPERATIONs
They are mutually exclusive. Default is --display.
.IP "-d, --display"
Output the table(s). This is the default.
.IP "-c, --count"
Output the number of entries in the table(s).
.IP "-a, --add"
Add an entry to the table(s).
.IP "-r, --remove"
Remove an entry from the table(s).
.IP "-x, --flush"
Flush all entries from the table.

.SS PROTOCOLS
They are not mutually exclusive. If you provide no protocol, the default is all protocols. If you provide at least one protocol, the rest will be turned off.
.IP "-u, --udp"
Apply the operation to the UDP table.
.IP "-t, --tcp"
Apply the operation to the TCP table.
.IP "-i, --icmp"
Apply the operation to the ICMP table.

.SS Others
.IP --prefix
.RI "IPv6 prefix to add or remove to the table. Only relevant when " --add " or " --remove " are present."
.br
.RI "The format is " IPV6_ADDRESS / PREFIX_LENGTH "."
.br
Exampĺe: --prefix 64:ff9b::/96
.IP --address
.RI "IPv4 address to add or remove to Jool's IPv4 pool. Only relevant when " --add " or " --remove " are present."
.br
Exampĺe: --address 10.20.30.40
.IP --bib4
.RI "IPv4 side of the BIB entry being added or removed. Only relevant when " --add " or " --remove " are present."
.br
.RI "The format is " IPV4_ADDRESS # PORT "."
.br
Exampĺe: --bib4 10.20.30.40#5000
.IP --bib6
.RI "IPv6 side of the BIB entry being added or removed. Only relevant when " --add " or " --remove " are present."
.br
.RI "The format is " IPV6_ADDRESS # PORT "."
.br
Exampĺe: --bib6 1::2#5000
.IP --numeric
.RI "Do not try to resolve hostnames. Only relevant when " --display " is present."

.SS "--filtering's FLAG_KEYs"
.IP --dropAddr=BOOL
Apply address-dependent filtering?
.IP --dropInfo=BOOL
Filtering ICMPv6 info messages?
.IP --dropTCP=BOOL
Drop externally initiated TCP connections?
.IP --toUDP=INT
Set the UDP session lifetime (in seconds).
.IP --toTCPest=INT
Set the TCP established session lifetime (in seconds).
.IP --toTCPtrans=INT
Set the TCP transitory session lifetime (in seconds).
.IP --toICMP=INT
Set the ICMP session lifetime (in seconds).

.SS "--translate's FLAG_KEYs"
.IP --setTC=BOOL
Override IPv6 traffic class
.IP --setTOS=BOOL
Override IPv4 type of service
.IP --TOS=INT
IPv4 type of service
.IP --setDF=BOOL
DF flag always on
.IP --genID=BOOL
Generate IPv4 identification
.IP --boostMTU=BOOL
Decrease MTU failure rate
.IP --plateaus=INT[,INT]*
MTU plateaus
.IP --minMTU6=INT
Minimum MTU of all your IPv6 networks.

.SS "--fragmentation's FLAG_KEYs"
.IP --toFrag=INT
Set the fragment reassembly timeout (in seconds).
.B Note:
The Fragment Database (and hence this value) is bound to be obsoleted in the next version. If you're using it in your scripts, be prepared to want to tweak them.

.SH EXAMPLES
Print the IPv6 pool:
.br
	jool --pool6 --display
.br
Add prefix 1234:abcd/96 to the IPv6 pool:
.br
	jool --pool6 --add --prefix=1234:abcd::/96
.br
Remove prefix 1234:abcd/96 from the IPv6 pool:
.br
	jool --pool6 --remove --prefix=1234:abcd::/96
.P
Print the number of IPv4 addresses in the pool:
.br
	jool --pool4 --count
.br
Add address 192.168.2.10 to the IPv4 pool:
.br
	jool --pool4 --add --addr=192.168.2.10
.br
Remove address 192.168.2.10 from the IPv4 pool:
.br
	jool --pool4 --remove --addr=192.168.2.10
.P
Print the Binding Information Base (BIB):
.br
	jool --bib
.br
Add a binding to the BIB:
.br
	jool --bib --add --bib4=192.168.2.1#11 --bib6=1::1#22
.br
Remove a binding from the BIB:
.br
	jool --bib --remove --bib4=192.168.2.1#11
.br
	or
.br
	jool --bib --remove --bib6=1::1#22
.P
Print the session table:
.br
	jool --session
.P
Print the "Filtering and Updating" step's configuration:
.br
	jool --filtering
.br
Change some "Filtering and Updating" configuration value:
.br
	jool --filtering --dropAddr ON
.P
Print the "Translating the packet" step's configuration:
.br
	jool --translate
.br
Change some "Translating the packet" configuration value:
.br
	jool --translate --TOS 123

.SH NOTES
TRUE, FALSE, 1, 0, YES, NO, ON and OFF are all valid booleans. You can mix case too.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on success, non-zero on failure.

.SH AUTHOR
NIC Mexico & ITESM

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Our issue tracker is https://github.com/NICMx/NAT64/issues.
If you want to mail us instead, use jool@nic.mx.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2014 NIC Mexico.
.br
License: GPLv3+ (GNU GPL version 3 or later)
.br
This is free software: you are free  to  change  and  redistribute  it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
https://www.jool.mx
.br
https://www.jool.mx/userspace-app.html

